title: Environmental Impact
date: 2015-02-22 14:27:58
parents:
  'The Observatory': ../the-observatory
---

### Power generation

Electricity for the site and the crane is generated by a
stand-alone power system consisting of photovoltaics and
a diesel generator, combined with a SMA "Sunny Island" inverter
and battery management system. The potential solar PV generation
is 4.42kW and in conjunction with a 2600Ah battery storage
capability reduces the diesel generator run time, on average,
to only two hours per day.

This system design was chosen as it can be expanded in the
future and our aim is to include a much larger solar array with
the intention of eliminating the daily operation of the diesel
generator. It also has the capacity to incorporate other
alternate energy sources such as wind and hydro, of which
the feasibility will be explored.

### Noise

The power system is located outside the forest in a special
sound-proof shelter. When the diesel generator is running
this noise is in the order of 70dB(A) at seven metres (or
similar to a vacuum cleaner).

The crane itself is coated with zinc to protect against salt
water and is painted black to make it as unobtrusive as
possible. The crane is electrically driven and is VERY quiet.
The motors have been specifically modified and noise levels
may be in the order of 38 dB(A) at 30 metres from the
machine deck of the crane, equivalent to the noise level of
a busy office.


TODO: Waste management


<!-- more -->

content from http://www.jcu.edu.au/canopycrane/about/JCUPRD_046920.html

notes | ...
-------|-----
alternative titles | -
targets | everyone
